---
title: 'RAT Framework: Trigger'
author: Silthus
type: post
date: -001-11-30T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=95
categories:
  - Programming
  - RAT Framework

---
Triggers are the fundamental building block and the source for everything inside the [RAT Framework][1]. A trigger can be as simple as someone clicking a button or as complex as a person walking into the radius of defined coordinates. They already exist in many programming languages known as events. The RAT Framework will reuse those events and provide a way to use them in configuration files.

# What is a trigger?

A trigger is an event that is broadcasted by an application implementing the RAT Framework. Like every component the trigger also has a unique name that can be referenced inside the configuration files. Triggers can also have requirements that define when the event will be broadcasted to the framework.

## How to define a trigger?

If you are using the self contained version of the framework, triggers are simply defined by calling a method on the central API with the unique name of the trigger. Here the unique name of the trigger is &#8220;player.move&#8221;. You can use the anonymous predicate to test config parameters that will define if the trigger is broadcasted or not. After defining the predicate you have the option to pass in the triggering entity, in this case the player. That entity can then be used in chained actions and requirements.

<pre class="brush: csharp; title: ; notranslate" title="">RAT.Trigger("player.move", config =&gt; IsAtCoordinates(player, config.x, config.y, config.z), player);</pre>

If you are using some kind of message broker, like Kafka or RabbitMQ, you can simply broadcast messages like you would normally and let the intermediate RAT service take care of the rest. However in that case you cannot define predicates to match against the configuration. If configured correctly the central API will also use the message broker to broadcast triggered events.

 [1]: https://michaelreichenbach.de/introducing-rat-framework/