---
title: 'Minecraft server administration with Docker and Git – Part 1: The big picture'
author: Silthus
type: post
date: -001-11-30T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=157
hestia_layout_select:
  - sidebar-right
categories:
  - Docker
  - Minecraft
  - System Administration
tags:
  - docker
  - linux
  - minecraft
  - spigot
  - system-administration

---
Multi part blog post series:

  1. The big picture
  2. Start with a basic minecraft server running in docker
  3. Version control your plugin configs
  4. Where goes the data?
  5. Integrating bungeecord &#8211; multiple servers

* * *

When I started [my first Minecraft server][1] back in 2010, it was just a simple Debian Linux with a single java process hosting the bukkit server. Bungeecord and Docker did not exist at this time and [git was just gaining popularity][2] amongst developers. If you developed a Bukkit plugin you would compile it locally and then upload it via FTP to your plugins directory on the server. Configs were also edited directly and their changes immediately showed up after the next reload or reboot of the server.

Probably most of the Minecraft servers today are still hosted and administrated like that.

## Why should I use Docker and Git for my Minecraft server?

For me it was and still is an experiment with coperate style workflows and technologies and the cool things you can do with them in a simple and fun side project like a Minecraft server. But this aside it has some huge benefits:

  * Consistency accross multiple Minecraft servers
  * Tracking of who changed what when and why
  * Simple cloning of in a local development environment. (At the end of this series you will be able to checkout a full clone of your production server with just two commands and have it running locally in one minute).
  * Releaseable versions with easy rollbacks.
  * Versioning of all config changes with the power to see who did what when and why.  
    No more searching in backups for the right config that someone changed without knowing what they changed.  
    With a version control system (vcs) like git you can easly track changes over time and even rollback unwanted changes with a simple command.

### Consistency accross multiple Minecraft servers

Most servers today use [Bungeecord][3] to connect multiple instances of their servers. A minimal setup would be a lobby server and a primary game server. If the game server ist restarted or crashes, players will still stay connected to your server and fallback to the lobby.

Normally you would need to configure and administrate these servers one by one. Keeping watch of the individual java processes and making sure you apply config changes accross all instances of your server.

At the end of this blog series you will be able to create a single Minecraft server _Docker*_ image that contains all of your plugins and configs. You will be able to start an instance of your fully customized Minecraft server with just one command. Need another server with the same configs but a different world? No problem: just spin up another Docker container with your custom Docker image.

_* don&#8217;t know what Docker is or how to use it? Take a look at the [Docker getting started guide][4] before continuing with this tutorial._

### Tracking of who changed what when and why

### Simple cloning of in a local development environment

### Releaseable versions with easy rollbacks

 [1]: https://michaelreichenbach.de/why-my-minecraft-server-failed-octalysis-analysis/
 [2]: https://hackernoon.com/how-git-changed-the-history-of-software-version-control-5f2c0a0850df
 [3]: https://github.com/SpigotMC/BungeeCord
 [4]: https://docs.docker.com/get-started/